# Hawk-Eye
It is an Edge System powered by deep neural networks for smart surveillance and threat detection.
## Abstract

With recent advances in both Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Internet of Things (IoT) capabilities, it is possible than ever to implement surveillance systems that can automatically identify people who might represent a potential security threat to the public in real-time. Imagine a surveillance camera system that can detect various on-body weapons, masked faces, suspicious objects and traffic. This system could transform surveillance cameras from passive sentries into active observers which would help in preventing a possible mass shooting in a school, stadium, or mall. In this project, we tried to realize such systems by implementing Hawk-Eye, an AI-powered threat detector for smart surveillance cameras. The developed system can be deployed on centralized servers hosted in the cloud, as well as locally on the surveillance cameras at the network edge. Deploying AI-enabled surveillance applications at the edge enables the initial analysis of the captured images to take place on-site, which reduces the communication overheads and enables swift security actions. At the cloud side, we built a Mask R-CNN model that can detect suspicious objects in an image captured by a camera at the edge. The model can generate a high-quality segmentation mask for each object instance in the image, along with the confidence percentage and classification time. The camera side used a Raspberry Pi 4 device, Neural Compute Stick 2 (NCS 2), and Logitech C920 webcam. At the camera side, we built a CNN model that can consume a stream of images directly from an on-site webcam, classify them, and displays the results to the user via a GUI-friendly interface. In particular, we developed a webpage using Python Flask Framework, which enables users to upload an image or capture an image directly from the camera. The webpage runs on top of both the Mask R-CNN model at the cloud side and the CNN model on the camera side. Also, the webpage displays the confidence percentage and classification time taken to process the image.  Finally, we evaluated our system using various performance metrics such as classification time and accuracy, scalability, etc. 
